as crack as the freshman drill team, but still, with the rifles and the marching and all, it's still a pretty sharp outfit and a proud outfit anyway, but comprised of juniors, invited up into three squads, depending on your height.
And, of course, being short, I was in the squatty bodies, the shortest group.
What?
The squats.
Squatty bodies.
Squatty bodies, okay.
And we were practicing one day and had our rifles,
The guy who, Wendell Weaver, who was first sergeant when I was a fish in my outfit, had already graduated, but he came back to campus, and he was an RV when he was here, and he came out to watch us practice.
And so here we are marching along, trying to be serious, and he's marching right beside me, just walking along beside me, reminding me of stories and pranks that I had pulled as a fish, and what he had done to me.
And so here I am, laughing, and
And every time I crack a smile, of course, I have to fall out and do 65 push-ups in my class set.
After about four times of that, doing class sets, I fell back in and they said right shoulder arms and I couldn't even pick my rifle up and my hands were so tired and the rifle drank, dropped and clanked all over the sidewalk.
So they stopped the whole squad, made the whole squad
do 65 push-ups, you know, and I wasn't able to do 65 that time, but I did as many as I could and got back up.
But it was funny with him going through some of the stories.
He came in one night and he smoked a cigar and I couldn't stand smoking.
When I was a fish and he came in and about two o'clock in the morning got me out of the sack and made me shine his shoes or something.
He also made me do a lot of push-ups and do duck walking, carrying a spoonful of water, doing a duck walk across the room without spilling any, and every time I spill something, I'd have to do 65 push-ups or something.
Then I had to do a pink stool, holding his RV rifle out as a fish, doing a pink stool, holding his RV rifle out, and he put a trash can on top of my head, and he would blow his cigar smoke up under that trash can.
and here I don't even like smoke to begin with.
And he was reminding me of some of those things that he used to do with me too.
So it was a fun time, but got the whole squad in trouble, so.
All right, let's talk about the serious questions.
During this, while you're an undergraduate, serious concerns are discussed on campus about changing A&M student body and so forth.
And how did you and other students react to these proposals?
The biggest thing, the 60s, you know, we were isolated to a degree as far as we didn't have TVs or anything like that and I for one didn't necessarily keep up with the news like I do now.
Newspaper's about all there was going on but so a lot of things we didn't know was going on.
There was enough going on in the Corps to keep you busy but A&M was, of course it was all male when I started out
and through my time here, except for the last year, there were a few co-eds on campus daughters, professors, and things of that nature.
So when they started talking about integrating, they were talking about integrating with females, of course.
We had many Hispanic students here and foreign students here.
Many of the Hispanics held high level positions in the Corps, were always, to me, some of the sharpest cadets we ever had happened to be Hispanic.
And I never saw any kind of discrimination in that way.
Never heard anybody say anything.
It was a oneness there, regardless of color or race, of those cadets that were there together.
There was a true oneness.
We never got into, I never saw it, never heard it.
The female situation can lie on females at A&M.
Of course, I would have to say that the great majority of the people
and me included, I was definitely opposed to that with every fiber of my being because I always felt like there should be a place.
And of course, I wasn't looking at student enrollment or what might happen in the future or anything of that.
I just thought that we deserved to have a place where there were a place for guys and a place for girls.
That softball is for girls and baseball is for guys and Little League is for boys and Girl Scouts is for girls and Boy Scouts is for boys.
So I didn't see anything wrong with that.
There's a place for that and I still believe that.
Having a daughter that came here and was a great Aggie, you know, I'm glad that it was done.
I'm glad it was done.
But at that time, I was strong against it.
Spoke to the Texas Congress about it.
Went to Austin.
Several of us went to Austin in uniform and spoke before congressional leaders about the situation and from an emotional standpoint,
let us have this one area that's not integrated.
What was their reaction in Austin to y'all?
Totally uninterested in anything we were saying.
I never will forget, it was my first exposure to congressional folks, the politicians, and we thought we had made a good argument.
Now you said Congress, did you mean state?
State, yes.
Not Congress, state legislature.
I'm sorry, state legislature, yes.
The state capitol in Austin.
They were reading the paper, not paying attention, feet propped up, reading a book, and that was my first exposure.
We had prepared a lot, thought we had good reasoning, even though it was from an emotional standpoint, and a personal preference to us, that was important.
We're Aggies, we have emotions, we are passionate.
And it was never an issue of being better than girls, that wasn't it at all.
And when the girls came, I never saw any of them mistreated.
I'm not saying that we went out of our way to just hug them and we're so glad you're here and pat them on back and stuff.
I personally was always polite and kind to them.
That's the way Aggies are.
With Mr. Rudder, did you ever discuss any of these matters?
We did.
As a senior yell leader and as a big proponent of not having girls, I was in his office one-on-one on a few occasions and talking about these matters.
and tears would be strewn down my eyes.
I was past, and even in his, tears would well up in his eyes about it, because he too was an Aggie, and even though he made a decision, it was a tough decision for him, I know it, emotional, and he made a decision with all the vision he had and from the input that y'all gave him, a lot more facts than we did about the future and money and laws and all of that, that we weren't looking at those things.
We were mostly interested in what's this gonna do
camaraderie and our oneness.
But he was always gentle and kind, totally understood our positions, never tried to discourage us from going to Austin or anything of that nature.
Were you here when the first black students enrolled?
I was not.
I'm pretty sure I was not.
We might have had
Because as far as I know, the first black students were regular Army enlisted men who came in the summer, paid by the Department of Defense to finish their degree.
And what year was that?
And I don't know.
It's sometime in the 60s, but I don't know.
You know, there has, on reunions and stuff, and on campus there has been a black or two that played football here that has come up to me as if they knew me back in those days, but I cannot remember them being on campus.
heard any cadets.
I was never even on a discussion blasting a person because of their race.
Now, that might be hard to believe, but I'm just telling you the truth from the way I remember it.
I do not remember any of that problem.
Let's talk about the student body in general.
During your era, describe the student body in general.
Where were they from?
Small town America.
Today, so many of them, every time I meet somebody, it seems like they're from Houston or Dallas or San Antonio.
And I usually ask them, now where's that?
Because when I tell them I'm from New Boston, they'll say, now where's New Boston?
So I turn the tables on them.
But back in our day, A&M was, now we always had a lot of foreign students on campus and from a lot of other states because of the military background.
A lot of military kids that grew up all over the country and overseas came here.
So there was that, but at the same time, it was for the people that I was around, most of them, many small town farmers, family-oriented, church-going, strong morals, people of the ground, of the dirt, the ag people.
For one of those students to be accepted by the other students, what mattered?
What were the keys to being accepted?
Whether you are an ag or not.
Now, yes, we would kid people from being from New York or Pennsylvania.
We'd call them Yankees and all that to their face and cut up with them.
But if they came here for the right reason, and to me, the right reason is if you're a giver and not a taker, that's the biggest distinction to me between Aggies and other people.
We're givers.
And that's why I say that there's some students, and even back in my day, I'm sure, not to the tree today,
There's some students at A&M that are here for what can A&M do for me rather than what can I do for A&M.
And so if they had the heartbeat of an Aggie, and I call the heartbeat being someone who's a giver, who'll go the extra mile, who's unselfish, who cares about the other person, who follows the golden rule, who does those behaviors and traits that make a person great and different.
Character, if they have the right character, I could care less about their color
genuineness.
I will say I'm still not a proponent of forcing girls to be in every outfit.
I think they ought to have an outfit of their own.
I think it worked better then.
It just adds problems and it has nothing to do with them being less or not as good.
I promise you that's not it.
There's just a better way to handle it and give them the options.
There'll be more of them selected as leadership positions.
It would be better for them.
An 18-year-old boy doesn't need to be living next to an 18-year-old girl when they've been told that all their life.
I agree with you.
I'll say this too, that many of the girls, when I come back to campus and talk to a lot of the groups, some of the greatest Aggies at A&M are the females.
Many of them top-notch Cracker Jack.
In your day, did you meet yet when you were an undergraduate?
Had you met the young lady that was going to be your wife?
I had not.
I sure had not.
I was 28 before I married.
I left A&M and I was after the service and I went back home to New Boston and I served as youth director in our church for a while and I actually married one of the youth.
My daughter says when she tells everybody, she gets a kick out of this, she says, my daddy was the youth
But we've been married 30 years, and she is a big-time Aggie.
Never had the opportunity to go here, but she loves A&M and is a true Aggie spirit, just like yourself.
Did you have any Tessie dates?
Well, I guess one of the funniest things about, I never actually had a date.
I knew a lot of the girls just from being a yell eater, and our sweetheart was selected from there.
So I got to meet all of them and great, great girls.
I guess one of the funniest things that happened, that my daughter again really likes that now.
At a class reunion here at A&M, my daughter came with us and my son too, but she was a class of 98.
But one of the TWU girls that knew me was telling this story and my daughter just laughed her head off because she couldn't imagine.
When we'd play SMU or TCU,
we would go up and have a yell practice at TWU.
And so a couple of us yell leaders, usually the seniors, I can remember my senior year, a head yell leader went up in their big auditorium and they had all the girls there and there I was, the only guy, I think we had one other yell leader there and the only guy there and doing all this and doing the yells and teaching them the yells and all this.
Yale leaders, you know, and I had on my sweater and I was taking on my sweater and rolling up my sleeves and some girl out in the lobby and says, take it off, take it off.
And so I hovered back at her and I said, I'll see you after the Yale practice.
Of course I didn't, but they had, this girl was telling me, when you came to the campus for Yale practice, she said the girls would have sheets hanging out of their
their dorm rooms with Frank Cox written all over it.
I never knew that.
Of course, I thought it was funny too.
It shows you how hard up they were, but my daughter just got the biggest kick out of that, how anybody could have my name on one of their sheets.
Now, did you and your buddies go to the big dances here on campus?
Yes, the ring dances and combat ball and great times.
And usually, even then, as my junior and senior year,
I wasn't dating anyone in particular and would just usually have dates with different girls that other people usually would fix me up with.
How did Aggies behave at those dances?
Well, I don't remember anything ever getting out of hand.
I don't even know that they had alcohol at them.
Most of them were on campus and I don't believe there was alcohol.
I never saw any fights or anybody getting out of hand.
It was always a close-knit group.
pretty much, for the most part, as gentlemen, I would say.
You, late in your junior year, you bought those boots and you bought a ring?
Sabre.
A ring, yes, yes.
How much did the ring cost?
I think it was $27.
I want to say $27.50 or something like that.
How did you feel when you put it on?
Well, it was, of course, and still is, a great experience.
In fact, I've lost my wedding ring, as you can see, but not my Aggie ring.
So it's a great story.
Do you have any Aggie ring stories?
Well, one of my favorites.
It's not about my own personal self, but I would like to share this because this, to me, really tells it all.
Urban Hopman, class of 1939.
His family had moved from Germany.
They couldn't even speak English.
He came to America.
He wanted to be a farmer and help feed the world.
He came to Texas A&M, the greatest Aggie school in the world, graduated in 1939, was called up into the service in World War II.
He was on Corregidor, April the 21st, 1942, the most famous Aggie muster of all, when the, for weeks, 24 hours a day, they had been bombarded with shells and mortars and bombs and bullets, 24 hours a day, relentlessly, from the Japanese.
On April the 21st, they gathered together
in their foxholes and in different places, the ones that could and had a roll call of the A's.
They had passed away, their buddies that had passed away.
A week or so later, he was captured by the Japanese.
Went on the Bataille death march, escaped, recaptured, was put on the death ships where they were crammed in like sardines, where some of his buddies actually died standing up, couldn't even fall to the ground, they were so crowded in.
We spent three and a half years in a Japanese prisoner of war camp.
One set of prison uniforms, which he cut a little slit in his pants.
During the day, he would put his Aggie ring in that slit of his pants and hide it.
At night, at three and a half years, at the foot of his dirt bed, he would dig a little hole and put his Aggie ring in it and cover it up.
He said that in case I die, in case they ship me out, they might get my watch, but they're not gonna get my Aggie ring.
And to me, that really sums up what the Aggie ring's all about.
What a great man.
There will never be a building named after Herbert Hoffman at A&M.
But he was malnutritioned because of that, became blind, became a rice farmer, served his
What a great man, loved A&M, came back for the 50th reunion, passed away about three years ago.
Would this be H-A-P-T-M-A-N?
Hopman, H-O-P-P-M-A, H-O-P-M-A-N-N, I believe, Hopman.
Hopman, Urban Hopman.
And he, by the way, when he was a freshman, he and a couple of his buddies were the ones who planted the trees that lead in to the main entrance to the campus up to the administration building.
Let's see, on a lighter moment, talk about the student indulgences when you were here.
What were students smoking when you were here?
I suppose cigarettes.
Now, I never heard of marijuana on this campus, and I know it was the 60s.
I never heard of, I never even heard that term.
Yeah, all right.
And you hadn't heard of heroin?
No.
What variety?
First time I heard anything about drugs, it was in a Black Moor Jungle movie that I saw.
What cigarette varieties were the popular?
I imagine camel.
I don't know.
I never smoked them.
And not a lot of my buddies smoked.
And cigars were smoked when?
That was an unusual thing, wasn't it?
Yes.
I don't know whether it was a special occasion or what I ever did.
Did students smoke pipes?
There's one guy that I remember that did, but... And when they drank, what were they drinking?
I never knew of them drinking anything but beer.
I'm sure, I just wasn't around that crowd, but beer's all that I'm aware of.
I'm sure some of them drank.
And you heard about people that went to Whiskey Bridge.
Yes, but I don't know anything about, I never...
Did you ever go out on one of the groups that went skinny dipping at Clay Pits?
No, I did not.
And I don't even know that I knew of anybody that did that.
You know, different outfits do different things.
Everybody thinks that the Corps, they're all exactly like what they're on.
Some of them specialize in different things.
Some of them come to tradition to one of them that's not with another.
But I'm not aware of that.
During your years here, how much did you and your buddies go off campus here in town?
Very, very seldom.
You always had to have your uniform on, except if you were so far off campus.
And just the time didn't allow it, but there wasn't any place to go other than a couple restaurants.
I remember Zorapi's, I believe, was the name of the Mexican restaurant out here.
In my mind, I remember it over kind of toward where the Hilton is now, which was just woods back then.
And then there was a lady downtown that had a home that she opened up that- Big old boarding house.
Yes, and I mean, serve food like your grandmother used to cook.
And you'd go there and you'd just leave a dollar or something, a little bit of money in a jar there.
She never asked you to pay, never checked on it to see if you did.
Just trusted you to put a little money in a jar that she left there.
Did you and your-
Did you and your buddies go very often to the campus theater?
At Northgate?
Yes, quite a bit.
You know, I was telling you a little bit earlier about Markel Williams.
Yeah, and the noise would be over there just like it would be at the... Yes, it was funny there too, just like Guy.
I liked Guy better myself, but I don't know whether... But yes, it was pretty much similar.
The special things that Aggies went to, Silver Taps, do you remember when you first went to Silver Taps?
Yes, it seemed like, and it seemed like not only the first time, but almost every time that it was, it seemed like it was always kind of cloudy and there would be clouds that I remember going by and just the quietness.
You were truly quiet from the time you turned off the lights at 10 o'clock in the dorms
Most everybody lived on campus at that time.
As far as I knew, everybody did.
That's the only ones I was associated with.
And that's a real extra experience.
But everybody at Tim would go over to Silver Taps.
And everybody took it seriously.
Yes, yes.
And you didn't just go once and say, oh, well, I've experienced that.
What you got for me now?
And that's what I see happening.
Those are students again that do it.
But the real eggs, they went every time.
Be silent.
You wouldn't talk until the next morning at 6 o'clock at Whistle Jog.
You truly didn't.
If you had your lights on, they would.
If you had a quiz, you could have your light on, but you had to cover the windows and stuff.
Did you ever go to Silver Taps for someone that you knew well?
You know, thankfully, I did not.
I did not.
I was blessed in that.
It's my second most great tradition in A&M, after Muster.
but it's the one tradition that I wish our students never had to experience.
As great as it is, but what a time, the birds, every time the RV rifles, and the clicking of those hills, the RVs, marching down that walk, and those hills clicking in, you can hear them at the distance.
First time I heard it, man, huh, and then they'd fire those guns and the birds, but you could hear them flying off in the wind, and there was a,
Muster, did you, as far as you recall, did you go to Muster every year here?
Yes, yes, and of course the year back then too they had Yellow Eater read the roll call.
Oh really?
Yes, and so my year we had it outside in front of the MSC on the lawn.
So that's the one I remember the most, of course.
What is it that pulls, what are the events, what contributes to pulling Aggies together?
Well, I'm not saying it's the most important tradition we have, but as far as making the coming together,
the one that makes saying howdy important, the one that makes you want to say howdy to others, the one that makes you want to go to silver taps for a comrade, the one that makes you always want to go to muster from here on out, the one that makes it easy for you to stand as 12th man at the ball games and do all those great things and those great traditions is bonfire.
It's not the most important.
Although, I mean, muster, silver taps, far more important
But the one that makes these others possible is Bonfire because that's where the bonding really takes place.
It goes back to doing something tough together as a unit, as a family.
It will cause you to feel better about it.
Now you're saying howdy to somebody who's been right there beside you, carrying a lot of making it tough, doing something and Bonfire.
And we've gotten away from this some too I'm afraid.
The real purpose of Bonfire to me was always to show our undying love for our school, Texas A&M.
Secondly, way down the list, secondly, is our desire to be TU.
I want to be TU every time, but Bonfire, and it's not the event of that night, it's all the weeks and the hard work and the sacrifice and going the extra mile and being unselfish.
That's what being an Aggie's all about.
And it takes place at Bonfire, and that's what our students are missing today.
And I'm not knocking them, I'm just saying that when I can walk across campus, and I'm nobody, I'm just an Aggie, and nobody ever says howdy to me first.
All the way across campus, something's wrong.
We're going in the wrong direction.
Great kids, I'm not knocking them.
I know they're much smarter than we were, and all that, I hear that all the time.
But,
up for what's right and if we're not careful we can go downhill mighty quick and that's why i think bonfire is so important why i think cut is so important uh against president bowen's wishes on that and i know i'm not the one that has my name on top of the lawsuit but cut is where it happens and you just look at the pictures that's that's what does it like it or not and if you i don't want to hire somebody to do my work for me i don't want to
Next thing, what are we gonna do?
Hire somebody to stand up for us at the ball game?
I mean, that's how strongly I am against it.
I'm not knocking Bowen or anybody else.
I hope you don't feel that way, but I am saying that we better look at this careful, and, cause Aggies want it.
And we can do it.
We can correct it.
We lost focus, I'm afraid, and lost our priorities.
We forgot the sheriff.
Why we have to have that band around?
Why it has to be slow?
Ground has to be leveled.
Why you don't mess around?
Why you don't have fish on that stack?
Why riding that buggy isn't a Six Flags event that you can say, hey, I'll give you a ride tonight?
No.
Excuse me for getting on the soapbox there.
No, no.
All right, then those and the ring and the boots and all.
And then we get to your last week as a student and you go to Final Review.
Who came to Final Review?
Well, all my family.
My grandparents, first time they'd ever even seen a campus.
My aunts and uncles and my great aunt, they came down.
They were just small town folks, never had anything.
So this to them was almost like them.
And you knew you were going off to... Final year was probably the toughest day of my life, really, in a lot of ways.
Because back in our day, you know, most of us graduated in four years, for one thing.
And you weren't hanging around for another year, year and a half, two years.
So it was final.
That was it.
and Vietnam War was cranking up and many were going in the service and truly would be a fine review and be the last time you'd see some of them.
And the closeness and friendships that we developed were so strong and powerful that I can remember I actually fell down to my knees
really almost bawling like a baby.
I can think about it now.
It makes tears right up my eyes to think about some of those guys.
I never, and sure enough, some of them I never saw again.
Did you and your buddies during that spring, did you all seriously talk about where you might be six months, a year later?
I would say no.
Really?
Not that much.
Most of us knew that there was a good chance where we would be because many of us were going in service and we just didn't
And let me say this too, that one of the things that I think is really hurting us today is what occurs after elephant walk.
Elephant walk then was the third most serious event we had after Musters, Silver Taps, elephant walk.
It was not a game.
You weren't belittling people and running down and pointing.
and making fun and throwing stuff at it, and zips are dead, wherever that came, that's as bad as this right here, and beat the hell out of to me.
That kills us because here we are, it's just November, and we're saying that you're no longer a part of the 12th man, you're dead.
Well, they just put their boots on two months ago, and all of a sudden, that's taking the power and authority away from them, and no wonder they might start slacking off,
not going to chow or marching or doing their best.
You know, when they're dead and the underclassmen saying something about being, that is so unaggy and it galls me to think that we let that happen.
And it's one of the things I think we need to reverse.
And as strong as I am on tradition and I've written a book and all that, speak about it and all, an area that I think we could improve and help A&M is elephant walk.
Switch it to between final review and parents weekend.
Put it then, have a special time then.
Otherwise, we're saying, you're no longer the 12th man.
Does that mean I don't be out at basketball and baseball?
And this zip stuff, we've got to nip that in the bud.
But there's nothing sacred about that date, about being before the TU game.
And now, TU game ended the last game even for football, usually, because we didn't go to the bowls then, but now they do, so it's not even the last game.
And there's so much going on, or it was, with Bonfire and TU and Thanksgiving.
Move it, move it to a weekend later on in the year and let those seniors be seniors.
Because when you take away somebody's authority and you make fun of somebody being dead, well, what a killer.
That pulls the rug out from under all of your leadership and authority.
So I think we can make